---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
keywords: []
description: '“The Grove” '
datePublished: '2016-05-09T02:52:08.780Z'
dateModified: '2016-05-09T02:52:07.819Z'
title: ''
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
starred: false
sourcePath: _posts/2016-05-09-the-grove.md
url: the-grove/index.html
_type: Article

---
"The Grove" 

4/4/14 

CHAPTER 1 

Lying in his makeshift bed, John fought to get up. While he didn't sleep much, never fully, and the leaf-covered-rubble was far from comfortable, he fought the same battle he did every day the sun rose. It peered at him from between the columns of the parking structure he lie in, more amber than yellow and more taunting than soothing. Its rays were dulled by the lingering dust in the air, the dust that clung to places like this, places where people once bustled and moved through life. The sun had changed. It made John uneasy, even nauseous sometimes. As it rose higher into the sky, seeming to streak away from the horizon, John rolled onto his right arm, propped himself up against the taunting sun and the cold morning air, shouldered his pack and headed back toward the grove. 

This had once been a relatively prosperous town. A college town that had turned into a city, it was not far from where John started, and not far from where he would end. Empty windows stared back at him. He'd grown use to feeling watched. The gloom of the clouds held in the sounds and the smell of the not far away coast. Enough light shone through to create glare on the panes from the two and three story buildings that surrounded him. Like eyeglasses of the old days, glinting white, obscuring the view of outside observers, the buildings and homes, abandoned and forgotten, stared at him like sinister, plotting, things. 

John had been in his last year of college to become a nurse. He liked people and he liked medicine, but didn't want to stick out the years of medical school and residency required to become a physician. He'd accepted that he'd be a "murse", as his ex-father in law tauntingly referred to him as. Kicking a stubborn bunch of weed coming through the cracks of the pavement, John remembered the victorious, domineering look in the eyes of that bitter little man. Grey and ominous like the clouds above him, Hanks eyes would judge John for his career choices, his beard, his clothing, his car, anything and everything he could judge. His bald head and flabby body would gleam and wobble, looking for a way to prove that John wasn't good enough for his daughter, but not believing he would have to try to prove it; that's how little the man thought of John. 

Pursuing his studies with diligence and enjoying his time with his fiancee was what John did in response. Nursing school was difficult, but being a quick study and having a little something to prove ended up helping John on the road to graduation. That was before all of this happened, anyway. Many things had changed for the worse, but at least John didn't think he'd ever see Hank again. He tried to focus on the good things and this was one of them. Hand to brow, he made sure it was still on the correct path to the grove and plodded forward. 

In the daytime, it was wondrous. On a hill above a low valley, about a mile from the city, it looked to him like a holy paradise. The sun often shone from between the clouds onto the tips of the leaves, giving them a silvery shine. Knee high grass raced up the slope from the valley, which was much darker and surrounded the grove. He didn't like to think about the valley. There was too much blood shed there. The tall, yellow grass was clean now, be he remembered when all the yellow was stained with red and black. When his boots plodded through the mud underfoot, he never knew if the sucking sound was caused by water in the ground, or if the blood spilled there had never dried, viscous and stubborn, alive and yearning, trying to pull him down into the earth. He hated the valley and hated crossing it to get to the grove, but he had to. The grove gave him peace. 

The trees of the grove were oaks, he imagined. He didn't know much about trees. He knew that during the day, when a breeze kicked up from the valley and rushed toward the grove, it broke against the trunks like water against rock, the sound cool and calming. The grass was soft and some days, John spent the day there. There was no rush anymore. There were no papers due, no dinners with family to attend. If he wanted to stare up at the sky and lie in the grass all day, he could. Light would come from between the branches and leaves around him, seemingly always at the same angle. The sun moved across the sky, sure, but here things were different. It reminded him of the times he had gone to church as a boy, how the morning light had shone through the paned glass windows behind the head of his pastor. Now, rather than a belittling voice to fill his ears and a shining cross blinding his eyes, Johns view was of the light that shone around green leaves tinged with brown, and the sound of wind making its way between tree trunks and over blades of grass. He never believed in heaven and hell or magic and power, but here he felt safe. The grove put a calmness into his soul that was impossible to get from a normal place. Lying in the tall grass with the sun on his face, he felt healed, strengthened, recharged. 

This was the center of the grove, a place he entered now. On the city-side, there was a wall of trees that were a bit hard to navigate, but he enjoyed the challenge. It gave him comfort that he, with all his faculties, had a difficult time moving his body over rocks and under branches and through bushes to get to the center. The others might have a harder time. He was safe from them here. \*\*\*